Fermented Hot Sauce
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- veggies
1.5 lbs of Peppers (your preference, I like "red", some bell some hot and a few habanero)
6 cloves of garlic (you can add lots more if you like)
optional consierations: onion (white), carrot slices, shallots, mango

- brine
4 cups of filtered water
4 tsp sea salt

- blending & finishing
1/3 cup apple cider vinegar
1 tbsp honey or maple syrup (optional)
1/2 tsp xanthum gum

Ferment:
clean and cut pepers, I remove the seeds.  Remove the paper from the garlic cloves, no need to mince or chop, though slicing is fine.  I stuff these into a quart mason jar leaving an inch and a half or so at the top.

Heat water and salt until salt is fully dissolved, allow to cool completely.

Fill the jar with the cooled brine.  Ensure that all of the veggies are submerged and not exposed to air.  I use a small zip lock bag with a bit of water in it as a weight to keep things submerged.  You can also cover the jar with cheesecloth.  The idea is to allow it to be exposed to air though not any particulates (dirt, dust or insects).

Ferment in a warm, dark stpo for 5 to 7 days.  Expierement here, shorter ferments and longer ferments will end up with different textures and flavor profiles.

Strain out the veggies, reserving a cup of the brine to add back in as you blend.

Blend the veggies with a cup of the brine, the apple cider vinegar and honey (if using).  After the blend gets smoooth you can add the optional xanthum gum.

This should last in the fridge for 6mo.


Notes:

This is not my own recipe, though I can not recall where I found it or I'd attribute it to the creator (I can't find it, though I think it might have been from /r/gifrecipes)

I've enjoyed this as a base for buffalo sauce; by itself on eggs (almost can't get enough); and mixed with mild salsa (much better flavor profile in my opinion than the spicer salslas).

This can be made with only hot peppers, though I typically use about 50% red bell pepper along with onion and garlic.
